約 翰 福 音 8
ChineseUnionVersion(Traditional)
8 於是各人都回家去了；耶穌卻往橄欖山去，
2 清早又回到殿裡。眾百姓都到他那裡去，他就坐下，教訓他們。
3 文士和法利賽人帶著一個行淫時被拿的婦人來，叫他站在當中，
4 就對耶穌說：夫子，這婦人是正行淫之時被拿的。
5 摩西在律法上吩咐我們把這樣的婦人用石頭打死。你說該把他怎麼樣呢？
6 他們說這話，乃試探耶穌，要得著告他的把柄。耶穌卻彎著腰，用指頭在地上畫字。
7 他們還是不住的問他，耶穌就直起腰來，對他們說：你們中間誰是沒有罪的，誰就可以先拿石頭打他。
8 於是又彎著腰，用指頭在地上畫字。
9 他們聽見這話，就從老到少，一個一個的都出去了，只剩下耶穌一人，還有那婦人仍然站在當中。
10 耶穌就直起腰來，對他說：婦人，那些人在那裡呢？沒有人定你的罪麼？
11 他說：主阿，沒有。耶穌說：我也不定你的罪。去罷，從此不要再犯罪了！
12 耶穌又對眾人說：我是世界的光。跟從我的，就不在黑暗裡走，必要得著生命的光。
13 法利賽人對他說：你是為自己作見證，你的見證不真。
14 耶穌說：我雖然為自己作見證，我的見證還是真的；因我知道我從那裡來，往那裡去；你們卻不知道我從那裡來，往那裡去。
15 你們是以外貌（原文是憑肉身）判斷人，我卻不判斷人。
16 就是判斷人，我的判斷也是真的；因為不是我獨自在這裡，還有差我來的父與我同在。
17 你們的律法上也記著說：兩個人的見證是真的。
18 我是為自己作見證，還有差我來的父也是為我作見證。
19 他們就問他說：你的父在那裡？耶穌回答說：你們不認識我，也不認識我的父；若是認識我，也就認識我的父。
20 這些話是耶穌在殿裡的庫房、教訓人時所說的，也沒有人拿他，因為他的時候還沒有到。
21 耶穌又對他們說：我要去了，你們要找我，並且你們要死在罪中。我所去的地方，你們不能到。
22 猶太人說：他說：我所去的地方，你們不能到，難道他要自盡麼？
23 耶穌對他們說：你們是從下頭來的，我是從上頭來的；你們是屬這世界的，我不是屬這世界的。
24 所以我對你們說，你們要死在罪中。你們若不信我是基督，必要死在罪中。
25 他們就問他說：你是誰？耶穌對他們說：就是我從起初所告訴你們的。
26 我有許多事講論你們，判斷你們；但那差我來的是真的，我在他那裡所聽見的，我就傳給世人。
27 他們不明白耶穌是指著父說的。
28 所以耶穌說：你們舉起人子以後，必知道我是基督，並且知道我沒有一件事是憑著自己作的。我說這些話乃是照著父所教訓我的。
29 那差我來的是與我同在；他沒有撇下我獨自在這裡，因為我常做他所喜悅的事。
30 耶穌說這話的時候，就有許多人信他。
31 耶穌對信他的猶太人說：你們若常常遵守我的道，就真是我的門徒；
32 你們必曉得真理，真理必叫你們得以自由。
33 他們回答說：我們是亞伯拉罕的後裔，從來沒有作過誰的奴僕。你怎麼說你們必得自由呢？
34 耶穌回答說：我實實在在的告訴你們，所有犯罪的就是罪的奴僕。
35 奴僕不能永遠住在家裡；兒子是永遠住在家裡。
36 所以天父的兒子若叫你們自由，你們就真自由了。
37 我知道你們是亞伯拉罕的子孫，你們卻想要殺我，因為你們心裡容不下我的道。
38 我所說的是在我父那裡看見的；你們所行的是在你們的父那裡聽見的。
39 他們說：我們的父就是亞伯拉罕。耶穌說：你們若是亞伯拉罕的兒子，就必行亞伯拉罕所行的事。
40 我將在神那裡所聽見的真理告訴了你們，現在你們卻想要殺我，這不是亞伯拉罕所行的事。
41 你們是行你們父所行的事。他們說：我們不是從淫亂生的；我們只有一位父，就是神。
42 耶穌說：倘若神是你們的父，你們就必愛我；因為我本是出於神，也是從神而來，並不是由著自己來，乃是他差我來。
43 你們為甚麼不明白我的話呢？無非是因你們不能聽我的道。
44 你們是出於你們的父魔鬼，你們父的私慾你們偏要行。他從起初是殺人的，不守真理，因他心裡沒有真理。他說謊是出於自己；因他本來是說謊的，也是說謊之人的父。
45 我將真理告訴你們，你們就因此不信我。
46 你們中間誰能指證我有罪呢？我既然將真理告訴你們，為甚麼不信我呢？
47 出於神的，必聽神的話；你們不聽，因為你們不是出於神。
48 猶太人回答說：我們說你是撒瑪利亞人，並且是鬼附著的，這話豈不正對麼？
49 耶穌說：我不是鬼附著的；我尊敬我的父，你們倒輕慢我。
50 我不求自己的榮耀，有一位為我求榮耀、定是非的。
51 我實實在在的告訴你們，人若遵守我的道，就永遠不見死。
52 猶太人對他說：現在我們知道你是鬼附著的。亞伯拉罕死了，眾先知也死了，你還說：人若遵守我的道，就永遠不嘗死味。
53 難道你比我們的祖宗亞伯拉罕還大麼？他死了，眾先知也死了，你將自己當作甚麼人呢？
54 耶穌回答說：我若榮耀自己，我的榮耀就算不得甚麼；榮耀我的乃是我的父，就是你們所說是你們的神。
55 你們未曾認識他；我卻認識他。我若說不認識他，我就是說謊的，像你們一樣；但我認識他，也遵守他的道。
56 你們的祖宗亞伯拉罕歡歡喜喜的仰望我的日子，既看見了就快樂。
57 猶太人說：你還沒有五十歲，豈見過亞伯拉罕呢？
58 耶穌說：我實實在在的告訴你們，還沒有亞伯拉罕就有了我。
59 於是他們拿石頭要打他；耶穌卻躲藏，從殿去了。
John 8 English Standard Version
8 1 but Jesus went to the Mount of Olives. 2 Early in the morning he came again to the temple. All the people came to him, and he sat down and taught them. 3 The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery, and placing her in the midst 4 they said to him, “Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery. 5 Now in the Law, Moses commanded us to stone such women. So what do you say?” 6 This they said to test him, that they might have some charge to bring against him. Jesus bent down and wrote with his finger on the ground. 7 And as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them, “Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her.” 8 And once more he bent down and wrote on the ground. 9 But when they heard it, they went away one by one, beginning with the older ones, and Jesus was left alone with the woman standing before him. 10 Jesus stood up and said to her, “Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?” 11 She said, “No one, Lord.” And Jesus said, “Neither do I condemn you; go, and from now on sin no more.”]]
I Am the Light of the World
12 Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, “I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life.” 13 So the Pharisees said to him, “You are bearing witness about yourself; your testimony is not true.” 14 Jesus answered, “Even if I do bear witness about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going, but you do not know where I come from or where I am going. 15 You judge according to the flesh; I judge no one. 16 Yet even if I do judge, my judgment is true, for it is not I alone who judge, but I and the Father[a] who sent me. 17 In your Law it is written that the testimony of two people is true. 18 I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me.” 19 They said to him therefore, “Where is your Father?” Jesus answered, “You know neither me nor my Father. If you knew me, you would know my Father also.” 20 These words he spoke in the treasury, as he taught in the temple; but no one arrested him, because his hour had not yet come.
21 So he said to them again, “I am going away, and you will seek me, and you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come.” 22 So the Jews said, “Will he kill himself, since he says, ‘Where I am going, you cannot come’?” 23 He said to them, “You are from below; I am from above. You are of this world; I am not of this world. 24 I told you that you would die in your sins, for unless you believe that I am he you will die in your sins.” 25 So they said to him, “Who are you?” Jesus said to them, “Just what I have been telling you from the beginning. 26 I have much to say about you and much to judge, but he who sent me is true, and I declare to the world what I have heard from him.” 27 They did not understand that he had been speaking to them about the Father. 28 So Jesus said to them, “When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am he, and that I do nothing on my own authority, but speak just as the Father taught me. 29 And he who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do the things that are pleasing to him.” 30 As he was saying these things, many believed in him.
The Truth Will Set You Free
31 So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him, “If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples, 32 and you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.” 33 They answered him, “We are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say, ‘You will become free’?”
34 Jesus answered them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave[b] to sin. 35 The slave does not remain in the house forever; the son remains forever. 36 So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed. 37 I know that you are offspring of Abraham; yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in you. 38 I speak of what I have seen with my Father, and you do what you have heard from your father.”
You Are of Your Father the Devil
39 They answered him, “Abraham is our father.” Jesus said to them, “If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works Abraham did, 40 but now you seek to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. 41 You are doing the works your father did.” They said to him, “We were not born of sexual immorality. We have one Father—even God.” 42 Jesus said to them, “If God were your Father, you would love me, for I came from God and I am here. I came not of my own accord, but he sent me. 43 Why do you not understand what I say? It is because you cannot bear to hear my word. 44 You are of your father the devil, and your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. 45 But because I tell the truth, you do not believe me. 46 Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me? 47 Whoever is of God hears the words of God. The reason why you do not hear them is that you are not of God.”
Before Abraham Was, I Am
48 The Jews answered him, “Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon?” 49 Jesus answered, “I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me. 50 Yet I do not seek my own glory; there is One who seeks it, and he is the judge. 51 Truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death.” 52 The Jews said to him, “Now we know that you have a demon! Abraham died, as did the prophets, yet you say, ‘If anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death.’ 53 Are you greater than our father Abraham, who died? And the prophets died! Who do you make yourself out to be?” 54 Jesus answered, “If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say, ‘He is our God.’[c] 55 But you have not known him. I know him. If I were to say that I do not know him, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and I keep his word. 56 Your father Abraham rejoiced that he would see my day. He saw it and was glad.” 57 So the Jews said to him, “You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham?”[d] 58 Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am.” 59 So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple.
